Command
    What it does



git clone [url] 
    Copies an existing repository from GitHub down to your computer.



git add [file]                  ("Prepare to save the changes in this file.")
    Chooses which files you want to include in your next "snapshot" (commit).

    git add data_cleaning.py visualization.ipynb    (multiple files)
    git add notebooks/                              (entire folder)
    git add .                                       (every new file and change)



git commit -m "message"         (This saves the snapshot to your local history with a descriptive message.)
    Takes the snapshot of your staged files. The message explains what you changed.



git push                        (This sends your saved commit up to the cloud.)
    Sends your saved commits from your computer up to your repository on GitHub.



git status
    Your project "dashboard." It tells you which branch you're on, which files you've changed, 
    and which files are staged for the next commit.

    You will use this constantly. Before you add, before you commit, 
    you'll run git status to make sure everything looks right. It's your safety check.



git pull
    Fetches changes from the remote repository on GitHub and merges them into your local copy.
    
    This is crucial for collaboration. But even when working alone, you might work on your project on 
    two different computers (e.g., a laptop and a desktop). 
    git pull ensures your local copy is up-to-date before you start working.





So, the perfect solo workflow is:
    Start of session: git pull

    End of session: git add .
    git commit -m "message"
    git push




>>>Branching.<<<

Think of your project's history as the trunk of a tree. The main branch is that stable, working trunk.

When you want to work on something new—like a new feature, a bug fix, or an experiment 
you don't want to risk destabilizing the main trunk. So, you create a branch. 
A branch is essentially a copy of your project at a specific point in time, allowing you to work in a safe, 
isolated environment.

Once you're happy with the changes on your branch, you merge them back into the main trunk.







git checkout -b <branch-name>
	Creates a new branch and immediately switches you to it. This is the command you'll use constantly to start new work.



git branch
	Lists all the branches in your repository and shows you which one you're currently on.



git checkout <branch-name>
	Switches to an existing branch.



git merge <branch-name>
	Merges the changes from the specified branch into your current branch.